.TH "cake" "6" "Oct 6, 2000" "Games" "Games"
.SH NAME
cake \- lets you play at draughts against the computer.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cake
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I cake
first asks, whether you want to load a previously saved game or
play a new game, whether you want to play the black or the white
stones and how long the program may compute its moves. It then
starts a game; When its your move, enter the standard notation, eg.
\fB11-15\fP, with no blanks inside.  If you must jump, you can also
write a cross between the numbers, eg. \fB15x22\fP.  It is a vicious
circle. At the end of the game, everything starts over from the
beginning.
.PP
At \fIany\fP prompt, entering \fBquit\fP returns you to the shell.
When asked for a \fImove\fP, you can also \fBpart\fP or \fBsave\fP
the current game, or \fBload\fP a game.
.PP
The letters used to draw the board are: \fB-\fP for an empty node,
\fBb\fP for a black man, \fBB\fP a black king, \fBw\fP a white man,
\fBW\fP a white king.  As a substitute for a board editor, open
~/cakegame in your text editor, replace some or all of these letters
and then \fBload\fP the board.
.SH HISTORY
.I cake
is basically a negamax-based program along with the usual enhancements:
.IP - 2
Transposition table
.IP - 2
Move Ordering, static and dynamic with transposition table moves,
killer moves and history heuristic
.IP - 2
Selective extensions on forced moves and quiescence search,
forward pruning in hopeless-looking positions
.IP - 2
Tree size reduction with enhanced transposition cutoffs
.SH FILES
.I $(HOME)/cakegame
- ascii saved game
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR simplech (1),
.BR xcheckers (1),
.BR http://www.fierz.ch/checkers/
.SH AUTHORS
Martin Fierz - cake checkers engine,
Jonathan Schaeffer - database access,
Peter Chiocchetti - commandline interface
